On the fifth day of the month of Shravan comes the festival of Nag Panchami. Cobras are worshipped on this day. This day is also called Garud Panchami. Ploughing of fields, peeling and cutting of vegetables etc. are prohibited on the occasion of this festival. There is a story behind it.

They say that many a year ago there lived a farmer in a village. He went to plough his fields on the day of Nag Panchami. After working for a period he sat to take a little rest. Meanwhile his eight-year-old son also reached there. They began to gossip. The farmer again resumed his work. He was so much charmed by his son’s lovely talks that he could not see the hole of a snake, which was in the way of his plough. The plough destroyed the hole and its sharp pointed cutter killed the baby snakes in it.

The snake returned to its hole after a little while and got very angry when it saw the dead baby snakes. The plough was lying there which had the baby snakes’ blood on it. The snake very easily understood who was the murderer of its babies. It immediately bit the farmer and his son. But this would not stop its anger.

It reached the farmer’s house where his wife was busy in worshipping the ‘Nag Devta’. The snake thought to bite her after she had finished her prayers.

The hungry snake then saw a bowl full of milk lying there and drank up all the milk. The farmer’s wife opened her eyes after the prayers and found the cobra physically present there and bowed to it. It was difficult for the snake to bite her, but it told her that it had bitten her husband and son to death.

The farmer’s wife wept bitterly and asked for pardon. The snake thought that the farmer had killed its babies unknowingly, but on the other hand it had killed the farmer and his son in all its senses.

It said to the farmer’s wife, “Come! I’ll suck all the poison out of the bodies of your husband and son.” The farmer’s wife hurried to the fields with the snake. The snake sucked up all the poison from the bodies of the farmer and his son. Both of them stood up in a little while. All of them bowed to the snake which later disappeared. That day onwards this tradition is on.